classes/2018HS@HGK_IXDM/README.md, before:

# Aesthetic Responsibility, Self-Design and Coding



> _Indeed, design—including self-design—is primarily a mechanism for inducing suspicion. The contemporary world of total design is often described as a world of total seduction from which the unpleasantness of reality has disappeared. But I would argue, rather, that the world of total design is a world of total suspicion, a world of latent danger lurking behind designed surfaces. The main goal of self-design then becomes one of neutralizing the suspicion of a possible spectator, of creating the sincerity effect that provokes trust in the spectator’s soul. In today’s world, the production of sincerity and trust has become everyone’s occupation—and yet it was, and still is, the main occupation of art throughout the whole history of modernity: the modern artist has always positioned himself or herself as the only honest person in a world of hypocrisy and corruption._ (Boris Groys - Self-Design and Aesthetic Responsibility)



## Learning Outputs

* Critical thinking toward _self-design_ using creative coding as a tool
* Making the invisible daily generated data visible through creative coding

## Schedule

### 24.09 Hello C[omputer]V[ision]!

In this first class we will look at computer vision software and how it is used for facial recognition. How can we fool such algorithms in a way that they can't recognize faces anymore? We will look at the examples of [Adam Harvey ](https://ahprojects.com/) and his [CV Dazzle](https://cvdazzle.com/) and we will test the limits of such algorithm by trying different makeup techniques. _On the other hand we will also try to fool the algorithm by drawing faces by hand (to be decided yet)_.

__Inputs__

* [Why Stanford Researchers Tried to Create a ‘Gaydar’ Machine](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/09/science/stanford-sexual-orientation-study.html)
* [Machine Bias](https://www.propublica.org/article/machine-bias-risk-assessments-in-criminal-sentencing)
* [How I'm fighting bias in algorithms](https://www.ted.com/talks/joy_buolamwini_how_i_m_fighting_bias_in_algorithms/up-next) by Joy Boulamwini

### 01.10 / 08.10 Hello p5.js!

This second part of the course will be concentrated in developing the basic skills of coding using [p5.js](https://p5js.org/). This JavaScript library builds on [Processing](https://processing.org/) a coding framework for generative design.

JavaScript is the most used scripting language for the web. By learning this tool you will be able to design simple interactive websites.

__Dependencies a.k.a. what you need to download__ 

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* [MAMP](https://www.mamp.info/de/downloads/) (the free version)



__Tutorials__

* [Introduction to p5.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8j0UDiN7my4&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6Zy51Q-x9tMWIv9cueOFTFA) by Daniel Shiffman

### 15.10 Hello Device Motion!

### 22.10 / 29.10 Hello WiFi Hacking!

### Final Exhibition 17.12.2018

## Readings

* E-flux Journal #07 - Boris Groys - Self-Design and Aesthetic Responsibility [DE](http://whtsnxt.net/060), [EN](http://www.e-flux.com/journal/07/61386/self-design-and-aesthetic-responsibility/)

Commit message:

add bash commands to README

classes/2018HS@HGK_IXDM/README.md, after:

# Aesthetic Responsibility, Self-Design and Coding



> _Indeed, design—including self-design—is primarily a mechanism for inducing suspicion. The contemporary world of total design is often described as a world of total seduction from which the unpleasantness of reality has disappeared. But I would argue, rather, that the world of total design is a world of total suspicion, a world of latent danger lurking behind designed surfaces. The main goal of self-design then becomes one of neutralizing the suspicion of a possible spectator, of creating the sincerity effect that provokes trust in the spectator’s soul. In today’s world, the production of sincerity and trust has become everyone’s occupation—and yet it was, and still is, the main occupation of art throughout the whole history of modernity: the modern artist has always positioned himself or herself as the only honest person in a world of hypocrisy and corruption._ (Boris Groys - Self-Design and Aesthetic Responsibility)



## Learning Outputs

* Critical thinking toward _self-design_ using creative coding as a tool
* Making the invisible daily generated data visible through creative coding

## Schedule

### 24.09 Hello C[omputer]V[ision]!

In this first class we will look at computer vision software and how it is used for facial recognition. How can we fool such algorithms in a way that they can't recognize faces anymore? We will look at the examples of [Adam Harvey ](https://ahprojects.com/) and his [CV Dazzle](https://cvdazzle.com/) and we will test the limits of such algorithm by trying different makeup techniques. _On the other hand we will also try to fool the algorithm by drawing faces by hand (to be decided yet)_.

__Inputs__

* [Why Stanford Researchers Tried to Create a ‘Gaydar’ Machine](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/09/science/stanford-sexual-orientation-study.html)
* [Machine Bias](https://www.propublica.org/article/machine-bias-risk-assessments-in-criminal-sentencing)
* [How I'm fighting bias in algorithms](https://www.ted.com/talks/joy_buolamwini_how_i_m_fighting_bias_in_algorithms/up-next) by Joy Boulamwini

### 01.10 / 08.10 Hello p5.js!

This second part of the course will be concentrated in developing the basic skills of coding using [p5.js](https://p5js.org/). This JavaScript library builds on [Processing](https://processing.org/) a coding framework for generative design.

JavaScript is the most used scripting language for the web. By learning this tool you will be able to design simple interactive websites.

__Dependencies a.k.a. what you need to download__ 

* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
* [MAMP](https://www.mamp.info/de/downloads/) (the free version)



__Tutorials__

* [Introduction to p5.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8j0UDiN7my4&list=PLRqwX-V7Uu6Zy51Q-x9tMWIv9cueOFTFA) by Daniel Shiffman

### 15.10 Hello Device Motion!

### 22.10 / 29.10 Hello WiFi Hacking!

### Final Exhibition 17.12.2018



# UTILS

## BASH COMMANDS

```bash
$you traceroute thewebsiteyouwanttotrace.com
# this tracks down all the nodes you will pas through while reaching the website
```



## Readings

* E-flux Journal #07 - Boris Groys - Self-Design and Aesthetic Responsibility [DE](http://whtsnxt.net/060), [EN](http://www.e-flux.com/journal/07/61386/self-design-and-aesthetic-responsibility/)
